###🌱 Day 2 – Python and Problem Solving
📚 What I Learned Today
Today, I focused on enhancing my foundational Python skills and started diving deeper into solving problems. Here's what I covered:

🔹 Python Basics & Review
Data Structures:

Tuples: Immutable sequences, typically used to store fixed collections of items.
Dictionaries: Key-value pairs that allow for fast lookups and retrieval.
Strings: Immutable sequences of characters that support various methods for manipulation.

Control Flow:

if-else conditions: Crucial for decision-making in Python.
Loops: for and while loops for iterating over sequences and performing repetitive tasks.

🔹 Key Python Concepts
Tuples:
Used when data should remain constant and unchangeable.
tuple_example = (1, 2, 3)
Dictionaries:
Perfect for storing related pieces of data and retrieving them efficiently using keys.
student_info = {"name": "John", "age": 21, "grade": "A"}

🧠 Problem Solving (Codewars)

I solved several problems on Codewars to apply what I've learned:

📌 Codewars Challenges Solved Today:
Is this a triangle?
How many urinals are free?
Mumbling
Find the next perfect square!
Convert number to reversed array of digits
Loose Change!
Categorize New Member
Counting Characters
Sum Mixed Array

💡 Interview Questions Studied:
What is a tuple in Python?

Explain the immutability property of tuples.

How are tuples different from lists?
In what scenarios would you use a tuple over a list?
How do you access elements in a tuple?
How is indexing done with tuples?
Can you modify the values of a tuple once it’s created? Why or why not?
How can you convert a tuple to a list and vice versa?
What is a dictionary in Python?
Describe the concept of key-value pairs in dictionaries.
What are the advantages of using dictionaries over lists or tuples?
Explain how dictionaries handle hashing and collisions in Python.
What methods are available for adding, removing, and modifying key-value pairs in dictionaries?
What is the difference between mutable and immutable types?
Explain how strings are immutable in Python and the implications of this property.
What are string methods in Python?
List common string methods like .upper(), .lower(), .split(), .join(), etc.
What is string slicing in Python?
How can you extract substrings using slicing?
What are ternary operators?


Coding-Based Questions:

Write a Python function to find the index of an element in a tuple.
Write a Python program to count the occurrences of a specific element in a tuple.
Write a Python program to merge two dictionaries.
Write a Python function to find the most frequent value in a dictionary.
Write a Python function to remove all vowels from a given string.
Write a Python program that takes a list of tuples and creates a dictionary where the tuple’s first element is the key and the second element is the value.
Write a Python program to count the frequency of each word in a given string.

🔧 What I Coded:
Today, I implemented the Student Report Card System in Python. This simple CLI-based program takes student details (name, marks in three subjects), calculates the average, assigns a grade, and displays the report card.

Code Example:
def calculate_grade(average_marks):
    if average_marks >= 90:
        grade = 'A+'
    elif average_marks >= 80:
        grade = 'A'
    elif average_marks >= 70:
        grade = 'B'
    elif average_marks >= 60:
        grade = 'C'
    elif average_marks >= 50:
        grade = 'D'
    else:
        grade = 'F'
    return grade
🔗 Progress on GitHub:
All the code and solutions for the problems I worked on today are uploaded to my GitHub repository. You can check it out and follow my progress here (replace with actual link).
